Perdón que olvide enviaros la intro del proyecto como prometí. Aquí va. Respecto a la intro del paper que estoy escribiendo, está muy centrado en la fisiología de Prochlorococcus, pero este párrafo también os puede ser de interés como marco general:

 

Temperature impacts virtually every aspect of cell physiology, including the stability of nucleic acids and proteins, the fluidity of membranes, and the kinetics of enzymatic reactions (Ref). In freshwater cyanobacteria and eukaryotic phytoplankton, low temperature results in the reduction of transcription and/or translation efficiency, and compensatory mechanisms such as the induction of RNA polymerases, RNA helicases and ribosomal proteins have been observed (Los and Murata, 1999; Suzuki et al. 2001, Toseland et al. 2013). The expression profiles of proteins related with photosynthesis, translation and fatty acid metabolism also show differences in marine Synechococcus strains grown at different temperatures (Varkey et al. 2015). In the case of Prochlorococcus, despite the large body of information on the transcriptional response to a multitude of parameters such as nutrient limitation (Tolonen et al.,  Gomez-Baena et al., Thompson et al., Resitetter et al.), light, UV and oxidative stress (Mary et al.XX, Kolowrat et al.XX, Mella-Flores et al.XX), there is gap of basic knowledge on the impact of temperature at the molecular level. Here, we carried out a quantitative analysis of the transcript inventory of the Prochlorococcus model strain MIT9301 under balanced growth along a range of temperatures delimitating their thermal niche. MIT9301 features the most streamlined Prochlorococcus genome known to date and shares the highest similarity with environmental sequences from GOS dataset (Kettler et al. 2019) and the Tara-Ocean survey, thus representing a highly ecologically relevant model strain. We combined deep quantitative transcriptomics with mRNA decay experiments under temperature-controlled conditions to shed light into two questions (ii) how sustained cold and warm stress beyond their optimum temperature for growth impact the transcriptome remodeling of this key marine microbe, and (i) whether there are transcriptional markers associated with the growth-restriction of Prochlorococcus under cold conditions. A mechanistic understanding of how temperature affects growth and photosynthesis of cyanobacteria is needed to clarify how this factor influences its biogeography and future responses to increased sea surface temperature. While the physiological response to temperature in cyanobacteria is typically attributed to changes at the proteomic or lipidomic level, our results unveil a transcriptional basis behind the cold-temperature growth restriction in Prochlorococcus, which may be related to their inability to thrive in high-latitude oceanic waters. 
