Both Archae and Bacteria can contain PR
PR microbes comprise more than 50% of total microbial abundance

No clearly understood how light changes metabolism in PR bacteria, in most cases is not used for growth.

In microbial communities we may have confounding factors when assessing the efect of light on PR bacteria, e.g., photosynthetizers increase photosyntate employed as carbon source of vitamins.

Light seems to have an effect on cell membrane integrity, which is greatest in summer and lowest in autum.

They observe some differences in specific growth in light and dark, particularly during summer in SAR 11

SAR11 is a clade of bacteria to which Pelagibacter ubique belongs. This is possible the most abundant bacteria on Earth. Here is a documentary: Oceans of Microbes", Episode 5 of "Intimate Strangers: Unseen Life on Earth" by PBS. P. ubique has the smallest genome of a free-living organism (so far discovered). Genome contains metabolic pathways for all 20 aminoacids and most co-factors though. And, 70% of base pairs are A - T, which contain less nitrogen, a precious resource in oligotrophic waters. P. ubique contains PR genes, which are differentially expressed under light, whereas more genes for oxidative phosphorylation are expressed in darkness. As a curiosity, P. ubique has its own phage: HTCC010P, which definitely must be the commonest organism/genome on Earth.

In the paper: "Energy Starved Candidatus Pelagibacter Ubique Substitutes Light-Mediated ATP Production for Endogenous Carbon Respiration" authors find marked differences between light and dark conditions when P. ubique cells are under energy starvation, but not when carbon sources are abundant. Hence, PR may be an adaptation to life in oligotrophic ocean waters, producing energy (a proton gradient) out of sunlight.

TonB transporters (pmf utilizers, importing B1, haeme, transport of degradation products) absent in Pelagibacter. TonB was hypothetized to be the main utilizer of PR-derived pmf in B1-auxotrohpic Dokdonia, what about Pelagibacter then?

In their meta-transcriptome they found TonB receptor genes to be highly expressed, particularly in spring.

MARINE GENOME database: MAR database, Klemetsen et al. 2018)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTES:
P .ubique is the most abundant PR-carrying species, this is in the numbers, but what about biomass. I'm interested in the total contribution, these people are very small.
